README.md, before:



````markdown
# 🇦🇪 uaepass_official

Unofficial UAE PASS Flutter package enabling seamless national digital identity authentication with support for **installed** and **non-installed** UAEPass app scenarios.

---

## 🚀 Why `uaepass_official`?

- ✅ **Simple & Developer-Friendly API**
- 🧩 Supports both installed and browser-based UAEPass login
- 📲 Fullscreen OAuth2 flow
- 🛡️ Null safety compliant
- 🔄 Easily integrates with **Riverpod**, **Bloc**, or any other state management
- 🌐 Multilingual support (English / Arabic)
- 🔒 SOP1 user type blocking (optional)

---

## 📦 Installation

### 1. Add to `pubspec.yaml`

```yaml
dependencies:
  uaepass_official: ^0.0.1
````

### 2. Fetch dependencies

```bash
flutter pub get
```

### 3. Import the package

```dart
import 'package:uaepass_official/uaepass_official.dart';';
```

---

## ⚙️ Basic Usage

### 🧑‍💻 Initialization

```dart
UaePassAPI uaePassAPI = UaePassAPI(
  clientId: "<clientId>",
  callbackUrl: "<callbackUrl>",
  clientSecrete: "<clientSecrete>",
  language: "en", // or 'ar'
  isProduction: false,
);
```


## 🧱 Class: `UaePassAPI`

### Constructor Parameters:

* `clientId` – Client ID provided by UAE Pass.
* `callbackUrl` – URL the user is redirected to after authentication. Should use your app's URL scheme.
* `clientSecrete` – Client secret issued by UAE Pass.
* `isProduction` – If `true`, production URLs are used; otherwise, sandbox.
* `language` – "en" or "ar" to toggle the UAE Pass page language.
* `blockSOP1` – Blocks login for users of type `SOP1` (unauthorized).
* `serviceProviderEnglishName` – Name shown in messages (English).
* `serviceProviderArabicName` – Name shown in messages (Arabic).

---

## 🔐 Authentication Flow

### `signIn(BuildContext context)`

* Opens a `CustomWebView` to authenticate via UAE Pass.
* Stores the returned code in `MemoryService.instance.accessCode`.

### `_getURL()` *(private)*

* Constructs a valid authorization URL depending on whether UAE Pass app is available or not.

---

## 🔄 Access Token

### `getAccessToken(String code)`

* Exchanges the code for a JWT access token.
* Returns the token string on success, or `null` on failure.

---

## 👤 Get User Profile

### `getUserProfile(String token, {required context})`

* Fetches user's profile from UAE Pass.
* If `blockSOP1 = true` and user is SOP1, shows a localized `SnackBar` and blocks further access.

---

## 🔓 Logout

### `logout(BuildContext context)`

* Opens logout URL in a `CustomWebView`.

---

## 📲 Example with Riverpod 2.0

```dart
@riverpod
class UaePassController extends _$UaePassController {
  UAEPASSUserProfile? _user;
  String? _token;
  late final UaePassAPI uaePassAPI;

  @override
  FutureOr<UAEPASSUserProfile?> build() {
    uaePassAPI = UaePassAPI(
      clientId: UAEPassConstant.uaePassClientId,
      callbackUrl: UAEPassConstant.uaePassCallbackUrl,
      clientSecrete: UAEPassConstant.uaePassClientSecret,
      isProduction: !UAEPassConstant.uaePassIsStagingEnvironment,
      blockSOP1: true,
      language: 'en',
      serviceProviderArabicName: UAEPassConstant.serviceProviderArabicName,
      serviceProviderEnglishName: UAEPassConstant.serviceProviderEnglishName,
    );
    return null;
  }

  Future<void> signIn(BuildContext context) async {
    try {
      if (_token != null) {
        await signOut(context);
        return;
      }

      final code = await uaePassAPI.signIn(context);
      if (code == null) return;

      _token = await uaePassAPI.getAccessToken(code);
      if (_token == null) return;

      _user = await uaePassAPI.getUserProfile(_token!, context: context);
      state = AsyncValue.data(_user);
    } catch (e, s) {
      debugPrint('UAEPass Sign-In Error: $e\n$s');
      state = AsyncValue.error(e, s);
    }
  }

  Future<void> signOut(BuildContext context) async {
    await uaePassAPI.logout(context);
    _clearState();
  }

  void reset() => _clearState();

  void _clearState() {
    _token = null;
    _user = null;
    state = const AsyncValue.data(null);
  }

  String? get token => _token;
  UAEPASSUserProfile? get user => _user;
}
```

---

## 📱 Platform Setup

### ✅ Android

#### 1. Set `launchMode="singleTask"` in `AndroidManifest.xml`

```xml
<activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:launchMode="singleTask"
    android:exported="true"
    android:theme="@style/LaunchTheme"
    android:configChanges="orientation|keyboardHidden|keyboard|screenSize|smallestScreenSize|locale|layoutDirection|fontScale|screenLayout|density|uiMode"
    android:hardwareAccelerated="true"
    android:windowSoftInputMode="adjustResize">
    ...
</activity>
```

#### 2. Add intent filter

```xml
<intent-filter>
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data
        android:host="auth"
        android:scheme="<your_app_scheme>" />
</intent-filter>
```
 

### ✅ iOS

#### Add the following in `Info.plist`

```xml
<key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
<array>
  <string>uaepass</string>
  <string>uaepassqa</string>
  <string>uaepassdev</string>
  <string>uaepassstg</string>
</array>

<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
  <dict>
    <key>CFBundleTypeRole</key>
    <string>Editor</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLName</key>
    <string>com.example.app</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
    <array>
      <string><your_app_scheme></string>
    </array>
  </dict>
</array>
```

---

## 🔍 Notes

* Ensure that the **callback scheme** (e.g., `<your_app_scheme>://auth`) is **registered/whitelisted** in the UAEPass admin panel.
* SOP1 users are automatically rejected when `blockSOP1: true`.
* Make sure `callbackUrl` and `clientId` are configured correctly in the UAEPass dashboard.
* This package assumes use of a shared in-memory service (`MemoryService`) to store the temporary access code.

---

## 📚 Resources

* [UAEPass Developer Portal](https://docs.uaepass.ae/)
* [Common Integration Issues](https://docs.uaepass.ae/faq/common-integration-issues)
* [Riverpod Docs](https://riverpod.dev/)

---

## 💡 Contributions

Feel free to fork, improve and contribute via PR.

---

## 🧑‍💼 Maintainer

**Midlaj Nazar**
[GitHub](https://github.com/midhlajnazar) | Dubai, UAE

```

Let me know if you want a downloadable `.md` file or need additional sections like **License**, **FAQ**, or **Troubleshooting**.
```

Commit message:

Remove desktop and web example support
Deleted all example project files for Linux, macOS, Windows, and web platforms. Updated README to clarify that only Android and iOS are supported. This streamlines the repository and avoids confusion about platform compatibility.

README.md, after:



````markdown
# 🇦🇪 uaepass_official

Unofficial UAE PASS Flutter package enabling seamless national digital identity authentication with support for **installed** and **non-installed** UAEPass app scenarios.

---

## 🚀 Why `uaepass_official`?

- ✅ **Simple & Developer-Friendly API**
- 🧩 Supports both installed and browser-based UAEPass login
- 📲 Fullscreen OAuth2 flow
- 🛡️ Null safety compliant
- 🔄 Easily integrates with **Riverpod**, **Bloc**, or any other state management
- 🌐 Multilingual support (English / Arabic)
- 🔒 SOP1 user type blocking (optional)
- ⚠️ This package only supports **Android** and **iOS**. Other platforms like web, Windows, or macOS are not supported.


---

## 📦 Installation

### 1. Add to `pubspec.yaml`

```yaml
dependencies:
  uaepass_official: ^0.0.1
````

### 2. Fetch dependencies

```bash
flutter pub get
```

### 3. Import the package

```dart
import 'package:uaepass_official/uaepass_official.dart';';
```

---

## ⚙️ Basic Usage

### 🧑‍💻 Initialization

```dart
UaePassAPI uaePassAPI = UaePassAPI(
  clientId: "<clientId>",
  callbackUrl: "<callbackUrl>",
  clientSecrete: "<clientSecrete>",
  language: "en", // or 'ar'
  isProduction: false,
);
```


## 🧱 Class: `UaePassAPI`

### Constructor Parameters:

* `clientId` – Client ID provided by UAE Pass.
* `callbackUrl` – URL the user is redirected to after authentication. Should use your app's URL scheme.
* `clientSecrete` – Client secret issued by UAE Pass.
* `isProduction` – If `true`, production URLs are used; otherwise, sandbox.
* `language` – "en" or "ar" to toggle the UAE Pass page language.
* `blockSOP1` – Blocks login for users of type `SOP1` (unauthorized).
* `serviceProviderEnglishName` – Name shown in messages (English).
* `serviceProviderArabicName` – Name shown in messages (Arabic).

---

## 🔐 Authentication Flow

### `signIn(BuildContext context)`

* Opens a `CustomWebView` to authenticate via UAE Pass.
* Stores the returned code in `MemoryService.instance.accessCode`.

### `_getURL()` *(private)*

* Constructs a valid authorization URL depending on whether UAE Pass app is available or not.

---

## 🔄 Access Token

### `getAccessToken(String code)`

* Exchanges the code for a JWT access token.
* Returns the token string on success, or `null` on failure.

---

## 👤 Get User Profile

### `getUserProfile(String token, {required context})`

* Fetches user's profile from UAE Pass.
* If `blockSOP1 = true` and user is SOP1, shows a localized `SnackBar` and blocks further access.

---

## 🔓 Logout

### `logout(BuildContext context)`

* Opens logout URL in a `CustomWebView`.

---

## 📲 Example with Riverpod 2.0

```dart
@riverpod
class UaePassController extends _$UaePassController {
  UAEPASSUserProfile? _user;
  String? _token;
  late final UaePassAPI uaePassAPI;

  @override
  FutureOr<UAEPASSUserProfile?> build() {
    uaePassAPI = UaePassAPI(
      clientId: UAEPassConstant.uaePassClientId,
      callbackUrl: UAEPassConstant.uaePassCallbackUrl,
      clientSecrete: UAEPassConstant.uaePassClientSecret,
      isProduction: !UAEPassConstant.uaePassIsStagingEnvironment,
      blockSOP1: true,
      language: 'en',
      serviceProviderArabicName: UAEPassConstant.serviceProviderArabicName,
      serviceProviderEnglishName: UAEPassConstant.serviceProviderEnglishName,
    );
    return null;
  }

  Future<void> signIn(BuildContext context) async {
    try {
      if (_token != null) {
        await signOut(context);
        return;
      }

      final code = await uaePassAPI.signIn(context);
      if (code == null) return;

      _token = await uaePassAPI.getAccessToken(code);
      if (_token == null) return;

      _user = await uaePassAPI.getUserProfile(_token!, context: context);
      state = AsyncValue.data(_user);
    } catch (e, s) {
      debugPrint('UAEPass Sign-In Error: $e\n$s');
      state = AsyncValue.error(e, s);
    }
  }

  Future<void> signOut(BuildContext context) async {
    await uaePassAPI.logout(context);
    _clearState();
  }

  void reset() => _clearState();

  void _clearState() {
    _token = null;
    _user = null;
    state = const AsyncValue.data(null);
  }

  String? get token => _token;
  UAEPASSUserProfile? get user => _user;
}
```

---

## 📱 Platform Setup

### ✅ Android

#### 1. Set `launchMode="singleTask"` in `AndroidManifest.xml`

```xml
<activity
    android:name=".MainActivity"
    android:launchMode="singleTask"
    android:exported="true"
    android:theme="@style/LaunchTheme"
    android:configChanges="orientation|keyboardHidden|keyboard|screenSize|smallestScreenSize|locale|layoutDirection|fontScale|screenLayout|density|uiMode"
    android:hardwareAccelerated="true"
    android:windowSoftInputMode="adjustResize">
    ...
</activity>
```

#### 2. Add intent filter

```xml
<intent-filter>
    <action android:name="android.intent.action.VIEW" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.DEFAULT" />
    <category android:name="android.intent.category.BROWSABLE" />
    <data
        android:host="auth"
        android:scheme="<your_app_scheme>" />
</intent-filter>
```
 

### ✅ iOS

#### Add the following in `Info.plist`

```xml
<key>LSApplicationQueriesSchemes</key>
<array>
  <string>uaepass</string>
  <string>uaepassqa</string>
  <string>uaepassdev</string>
  <string>uaepassstg</string>
</array>

<key>CFBundleURLTypes</key>
<array>
  <dict>
    <key>CFBundleTypeRole</key>
    <string>Editor</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLName</key>
    <string>com.example.app</string>
    <key>CFBundleURLSchemes</key>
    <array>
      <string><your_app_scheme></string>
    </array>
  </dict>
</array>
```

---

## 🔍 Notes

* Ensure that the **callback scheme** (e.g., `<your_app_scheme>://auth`) is **registered/whitelisted** in the UAEPass admin panel.
* SOP1 users are automatically rejected when `blockSOP1: true`.
* Make sure `callbackUrl` and `clientId` are configured correctly in the UAEPass dashboard.
* This package assumes use of a shared in-memory service (`MemoryService`) to store the temporary access code.

---

## 📚 Resources

* [UAEPass Developer Portal](https://docs.uaepass.ae/)
* [Common Integration Issues](https://docs.uaepass.ae/faq/common-integration-issues)
* [Riverpod Docs](https://riverpod.dev/)

---

## 💡 Contributions

Feel free to fork, improve and contribute via PR.

---

## 🧑‍💼 Maintainer

**Midlaj Nazar**
[GitHub](https://github.com/midhlajnazar) | Dubai, UAE

```

Let me know if you want a downloadable `.md` file or need additional sections like **License**, **FAQ**, or **Troubleshooting**.
```
